# Building web applications in Java with Spring Boot 3

## Create your project

We will use the [Spring Initializr page](https://start.spring.io/;) to create and download ready-to-run Spring Boot applications.In the group section, it is normal to put the domain in reverse order.

> For this project we will use the dependencies "Spring Web" and "Spring Boot dev tools".

---

If we are using meaven as a project manager, we can use the `mvnw` to run the project using the command `./mvnw spring-boot:run`.

> If the command does not work, make sure that it is available in the "Plugins" section.

---

Records are immutable data classes that require only the type and name of fields. The `equals`, `hashCode`, and `toString`, as well as the private, final fields and public constructor, are generated by the Java compiler.

## REST API

Java Dependency Injection design pattern allows us to remove the hard-coded dependencies and make our application loosely coupled, extendable and maintainable. We can implement dependency injection in java to move the dependency resolution from compile-time to runtime.

## Working with databases

To have a database we will include the dependency "h2" in our project. When we execute our project the database will be created automatically, and we will be able to access it through `/h2-console`.

> Remember to paste the database URL in the "JDBC URL" section.

---

For creating the schemes, we will create a `schema.sql` in the resources folder.

---

If you are going to use a postgresql database remember to add the `spring.sql.init.mode=always` option in your `application.properties` to initialize the database.

## Testing

To run the test of your applications without an IDE, we can use the `mvnw test` command.
